# Requirements for Foggy - Your personalized coding tutor

## Goal: 
With AI coding assistants and tools in the picture, the way a developer works has changed. This tool accounts for the shift in the way developers work.
1. Syntax: It is important to understand the syntax of a language or a framework, but not neccessarily memorize it.
2. Language Concepts: Crucial for us to understand all the basic concepts of a language or a framework. Helps write better prompts.
3. Methods and method signatures: Important to know the capabilities supported by the framework, library or language. Method signatures not essential.
4. Design Patterns: It is essential to know the common design patterns of a language to help solve a problem in a cleaner, more structured manner.
5. Project Based Learning: The approach is to build projects to learn, even if it's as small as a hello world program.


## Brainstorming:
1. Interact with the user to create a personalized learning plan for the user.
    - Once approved by the user, store the plan in a file with a brief description for point.
        - Idea here is that the user needs to tell what is the language/framework/library and why they want to learn it. 
        - Do they already have a project in mind for the learning experience?
2. The Agent can browse the web and figure out all the relevant items.
3. The plan:
    - should start with the basics of what the framework/language/library is.
    - Help the user with a basic example.
    - Move onto helping them understand the sytnax with basic methods which ask the user to add some code.
    - Then we can move onto understanding some useful code flows and patterns. This would be based on the end goal of why the user is learning this framework/language/library.
    - Then we can move onto design patterns for the language or library or framework if any. These could also be best practices.
    - At the end of every step in the plan, the user should be given a quiz to test their understanding .
    - Post the quiz, the learner is asked to build a mini project inside a subfolder.
4. Seperate agents for plan, generating each task , quiz, reviewer and evaluator (maybe a setup agent as well)?.
    - Context is seperate for each so that the agents are not biased from one of the initial agents.


## Example:
Learner: I want to learn React.
Foggy: Do you know HTML,CSS, Javascript?
Learner: No
Foggy: Let's start with that then.
Foggy: Comes up with a plan.
The learner flow:
    - HTML:
        1. Explain to the learner what is HTML and teach them on some basic tags through and example.
        2. Teach the learner to start a web server on localhost.
        3. Ask them to implement a basic HTML page with a title, image and anchor tags.
        4. Let the evaluator sub-agent evaluate, correct and explain the analysis to the learner.
    - CSS:
        1. Explain to the learner a style tag in html and how css helps in a page.
        2. Give the learner an example with good comments to help them understand and play with CSS.
        3. Ask them to implement a basic CSS file to get a stylized version of the original page.
        4. Let the evaluator sub-agent evaluate, correct and explain the analysis to the learner.
    - Javascript:
        1. Explain to the learner what is a script tag in html, how javascript allows dynamic web pages.
        2. Show the learner a well commented runnable example for basic java script.
        3. Ask the learner to implement a basic javascript program as well.
        4. Let the evaluator sub-agent evaluate, correct and explain the analysis to the learner.
    - React:
        1. Ask the learner to setup vite server in react. Help them with the steps.
        2. On setting it up, give a basic react program explaining react components.
        3. Explain useEffect, useState hooks to the learner with an example runnable program.
        4. Explain async await in React through a runnable example.
        5. Explain react props with an example.
        6. Ask the ulearnerser to implement an end-to-end todo app in react which makes an API call to the backend to store the newly added task. Allows the user to delete a task and view created tasks. Here, Foggy can implement the backend and basic project structure so that the learner can focus on the core logic.
        7. Let the evaluator sub-agent evaluate, correct and explain the analysis to the learner.

    -> The interaction is done with the main agent, which comes up with the plan as well.
    -> Each task also could be generated by the same agent in the above manner.
    -> Post creating the tasks, the agent's context is wiped. So as to strictly follow the tasks created.
    -> Quiz/Evaluator: Evaluates the user at each task and provides unfiltered feedback on the same.
        - The evaluator sub-agent is given appropriate context by the main agent to evaluate the user on this task.
    -> Main agents context can be wiped at the end of every major task completion.
    -> At each step post the quiz, the evaluator can identify weak points of the user and optionally suggest redoing the section with different examples.

## Requirements:
1. The agent should be able to interact with the user to identify the goal of the user.
2. The agent should be capable of searching the web to identify the relevant items based on the user's goal.
3. The agent should list out the pre-requisites and ask the user the knowledge they have on each of the pre-requisites.
4. The agent can craft the plan to include pre-requisites as well based on the user's requirements.
5. Based on the user's goal, pre-requisites of the language and the user's understanding of the pre-requisites, the agent must draft a plan.
    - The plan must be section wise.
    - Each section must first cover core concepts first through conceptual understandings, then cover the same using examples post which a mini project is given for the user to complete.
    - Based on the completion, the evaluator agent gives feedback and helps correct mistakes of the learner.
    - The evaluator also must suggest redoing the section with different examples if required.
6. The application must support per section examples used and project to be summarized and stored to ensure no repeat in the case user wishes to redo the section.
7. The application must support redoing a section.
8. The application must track user progress through memory.
9. Agent state must be wiped after every section.
10. Human in loop every step of the way wether it is planning, understanding or suggesting a redo.
11. Support Q&A on the generated example.


## Future work:
- Include images to enhance learning
- Include interactive quizes.